---
title: Creating Account
---

SlipStream is a secure web application that allows individuals to
access one or more cloud infrastructures transparently.  Separate
accounts are required for all users to allow them to keep their work
private and to protect their cloud credentials.

## Registration

If enabled by the administrator, you can register for a SlipStream
account directly through the web interface.  On the login page, open
the registration section, fill in the form, agree to the Terms of
Service, and click the "register" button.

The registration process will validate your email address by sending
you a message with a confirmation link.  Visit the link and then wait
for a message confirming the activation of your account.  Depending on
the SlipStream server's configuration, the administrator may have to
manually approve your account before it is activated.

## Account Setup

Once you have your account, you will need to configure some parameters
before you can start using it.  

To get to your user page, click on the user icon next to your username
in the top level menu.  Clicking on the "Edit" button will allow you
to update your information.  At a minimum, you will want to update
your SSH information and your cloud credentials.

You can provide your public SSH key in the "General" section of the
page.  Your key should be the standard, single-line format used on
Linux machines.  You can provide more than one key by separating the
keys with a new line.

To use the underlying cloud infrastructures, you must provide your
cloud credentials.  For each cloud that you want to use, open the
correct section of the page and provide the necessary information.
For StratusLab for example, you will need to provide your account
username and password.

When you are done making changes, be sure to click on the "Save"
button to save your changes.