---
title: Advanced Tutorial
---

Developed by SixSq, SlipStream is a multi-cloud, coordinated
provisioning and image factory engine. It is an engineering Platform
as a Service (PaaS) solution, supporting production deployment in the
cloud, as well as development, testing, certification and deployment
processes using Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud environments.

The software's features appeal to a wide variety of different users:

* _End-users_ will use SlipStream as a **resource provisioning
engine** to deploy virtual machines as well as full services, such as
batch clusters.  Users will find that SlipStream's multi-cloud support
makes deploying resources into different cloud infrastructures uniform
and transparent.

* _Service providers_ can use SlipStream to define customized images
and full systems (batch clusters, LAMP applications, analysis
platforms, etc.), creating a **rich catalog of services** that
end-users can deploy with the click of a button.

* _Software developers_ will be thrilled with SlipStream's ability to
provide dynamic, near-production environments for **realistic testing
of full software systems**.  Multi-cloud support takes this testing to
the next level, allowing the behavior of systems to be tested over the
wide area network.

This tutorial introduces SlipStream and describes how to get started
using it.  After this, a set of examples adapted for each type of user
is provided.  As the examples build on previous examples and become
increasingly more complex, readers will want to work through the
examples from the beginning.
